{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red57\green53\blue51;
\red245\green245\blue245;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c29020\c27059\c26275;
\cssrgb\c96863\c96863\c96863;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12660\viewh18360\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Setup python and django\

\b0 \
1. Install python3\
- don\'92t disturb existing python2 in the system\
- install python3, then make an alias to python3 for \'91python\'92 and to pip3 for \'91pip\'92 or explicitly use python3 and pip3 for all commands.\
\
2. Install django\
- use 
\b pip3 
\b0 to install django\
- check the installations:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 sjc-mpq47:~ dthiagar$ python\
Python 3.6.4 (v3.6.4:d48ecebad5, Dec 18 2017, 21:07:28) \
\
sjc-mpq47:~ dthiagar$ django-admin --help\
\
Type 'django-admin help <subcommand>' for help on a specific subcommand.
\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
- if you get this error when using django-admin:\
	Traceback (most recent call last):\
  File "/usr/local/bin/django-admin", line 2, in <module>\
    from django.core import management\
ImportError: No module named django.core\
\
django-admin is probably referring to python2 and is unable to find django (as we installed it with python3 using pip3). To fix:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 sjc-mpq47:bin dthiagar$ which django-admin\
/usr/local/bin/django-admin\
sjc-mpq47:bin dthiagar$ cd /usr/local/bin/\
sjc-mpq47:bin dthiagar$ vi django-admin \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 change the first line to refer python3 like this:
\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 #!/usr/bin/env python3\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
3. Setup the virtual environment\
\
- Install virtualenv
\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 pip3 install virtualenv
\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
\
- Create a virtual environment and switch to it\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 $ virtualenv myvenv\
$ source myvenv/bin/activate\
(myvenv) sjc-mpq47:udemy-django2 dthiagar$ python\
Python 3.6.4 (v3.6.4:d48ecebad5, Dec 18 2017, 21:07:28) \

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
Check python and django installations in the virtual environment. Proceed if everything looks fine, otherwise install django again in the virtual environment.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Get started with the Portfolio app\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \
1. Enter the virtual environment. Use django-admin to start a project\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 django-admin startproject portfolio\
\

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 2. Rename the parent directory to portfolio-project to avoid confusion. Then import the project to the text editor.\
\
3. Initialize git and add .gitignore\
\
4. Install postgres. For Mac, postgres app is a easy way to use postgres. Install it from postgres website. Then create a database called portfolio. Connect postgres to the python project by updating settings.py file inside the project (the field DATABASES)\
\
5. Add apps for blog and job\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 python manage.py startapp blog\
python manage.py startapp jobs\

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 This adds directory structures for blog and jobs and configuration files\
\
6. Create a superuser for the django-admin interface to add new models\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 python manage.py createsuperuser
\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
Run the server\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 python manage.py runserver
\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
Go to the django admin web interface at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://localhost:8000/admin/"}}{\fldrslt http://localhost:8000/admin/}} and login with the credentials created\
\
7. To work with images, install Pillows using pip3. Configure settings.py to specify image directories (MEDIA_ROOT and MEDIA_URL) and add the URL patterns for the images by updating urls.py in the project (the field urlpatterns)\
\
8. Configure the apps blog and job\
For each app:\
i. In the models.py file that got generated, add the app class and the fields\
ii. Add the model to the project by updating settings.py and adding the apps in INSTALLED_APPS field\
iii. Create and make migrations:\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 python manage.py makemigrations\
python manage.py migrate\

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 iv. Add the models to Admin interface \
\
9. Go back to the admin interface to verify that everything runs fine and there are options to add new objects for the new models added\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Add pages to the app\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 1. Add a new function in jobs/views.py to render the homepage\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \CocoaLigature0 def home(request):\
    return render(request, 'jobs/home.html')
\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \CocoaLigature1 \
\
2. Add a new urlpattern to urls.py in the project to allow a new page called home to our web app, and 
\b \

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \CocoaLigature0 import jobs.views\
path('', jobs.views.home, name='home')\

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \CocoaLigature1 \
3. Add a new html page at jobs/templates/jobs/home.html\
\
\
\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb5 \CocoaLigature0 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
}